Now you don’t have to configure an EtherSwitch module
directly through a router as I’ve done here.
so if I type show diag
you'll be able to see various components in the router
including the EtherSwitch module of 16 ports
notice the product code is NM-16ESW show ip int brief
shows me the EtherSwitch module ports in a router.
You may wanna configure it as follows.
So go to help, setup wizard
choose whether you're going to use a local GNS3 VM or local server
in my example, I'll use the local server.
I’m gonna use a real IOS image
and I’m gonna select an existing image my 3725 image.
When prompted for the name I’m gonna specify that this is an EtherSwitch router
and notice the name changes when I click next
I can fill in the default values
notice this router has the EtherSwitch module builtin
go through the wizard click finish
and notice here we see an EtherSwitch router with the switch icon.
So when I drag this to my workspace
this shows up as a switch
now it’s essentially still a router with an EtherSwitch module in it.
So you can see it’s a Cisco 3725 router
but notice information has been configured for me
including the name of the router and this help shown here
showing you that this is a normal router with a switch module inside
but it has pre-configured and hard coded with speed and duplex.